---
Author: Kyle Jones Publication_date: October 1, 2022 Canonical_link: "https://medium.com/@kyle-t-jones/5-examples-of-business-analytics-in-action-ca33017014e9" Export_from_medium_date: November 10, 2025
---
# 5 examples of Business Analytics in Action As more and more consumers use online platforms for product research and
transactions, organizations have access to more real business...

### 5 examples of Business Analytics in Action As more and more consumers use online platforms for product research and transactions, organizations have access to more real business

data than ever before. <figcaption>Credit: DALL·E mini by <a href="https://www.craiyon.com/" class="markup--anchor markup--figure-anchor" data-href="https://www.craiyon.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">craiyon.com</a></figcaption> Social media feedback, online clicks, and customer surveys and other data-driven platforms have provided thousands of businesses with vast amounts of data providing insight into customer behavior and purchasing patterns.\ In the enterprise, companies use artificial intelligence software to collect and centralize sales and operations data in a single location, allowing a business analyst to view employee performance and assess inventory management. In short, there's no denying the power of leveraging big data to get actionable insights on complex issues. #### Growth and importance of business analytics The industries that consider business analytics most important are banking and retail, with 58% saying that it is very important to ensure that key objectives are met. Technological advancements, improved accessibility, and improved benefits for users are the drivers of growth in the BI and BA market. The 48% of all organizations consider BA essential to maintain operations. By employing an intelligence system to drill down into customer, financial, and sales data, companies can better understand their strengths and weaknesses. This allows the stakeholders involved to eliminate inefficiencies and make better decisions that increase the quality of the results and improve customer satisfaction. As a result of the use of data science and data mining strategies, organizations improve their marketing and sales strategies, improve the customer experience, find new target customers, optimize the supply chain, simplify internal workflows, and standardize best practices. By employing business analytics as part of a broader business intelligence strategy, companies can replace manual processes, gain a competitive advantage, increase worker efficiency, and streamline business decisions. Here are some examples of business analytics that have leveraged analytics business intelligence tools as part of an overall growth and optimization strategy. #### HelloFresh HelloFresh is a meal kit delivery company that uses a business analytics software solution to improve digital marketing reporting.\ Originally, marketing business units were analyzing data sets in Excel spreadsheets. This information was collected from a variety of separate databases before entering it into Excel. Because information had to be constantly entered, added, and evaluated by workers every day to obtain information, the company was wasting valuable time and resources. HelloFresh used a business intelligence and big data analytics solution to centralize all reporting information from separate locations into a single data warehouse. Team leaders developed a set of KPIs to show each location's progress toward meeting specific goals, with automatic alerts sent to involved stakeholders each time it was updated. As a result of being able to view and manage information in real time, the company has optimized its sales / marketing strategies and has responded more quickly to changes in market trends. #### REI REI is an outdoor cooperative retailer that purchased a business analytics intelligence platform to evaluate cooperative member data. Because cooperative members contributed the majority of the earnings, it was essential to keep track of their retention and activation rates. REI originally used Excel to keep track of its members\' data, which resulted in less accuracy, wasted time, and wasted resources. An enterprise analytics solution centralized all data in a single warehouse and enabled stakeholders to use a set of KPIs to keep track of member data. As a result, REI has developed new membership programs, increased retention rates, and acquired new clients. #### Coca-Cola Coca-Cola is a large global bottling partner that uses a BA platform to improve reporting processes. Coca-Cola originally collected and manually analyzed large amounts of sales and operations data, forcing employees to work an additional 260 hours a year. The data was placed in several different databases, making it difficult for employees to order and perform analyzes. By implementing a business intelligence system, the organization automated manual processes and enabled the sales team to access customer relationship management data through dashboards that provided immediate alerts when an update occurred. The leadership team was able to use a business intelligence system to access real-time numbers every day and correct inefficiencies so that employees could focus on more important activities. Decision makers used business intelligence and data visualization business intelligence tools to gain more insight into daily operations and employee performance. Everyone spent less time generating reports and more time devising strategies to increase profits, create marketing outreach campaigns, and find new customers. #### Chipotle Chipotle Mexican Grill is a global restaurant business that implemented a BI tool to increase visibility of performance metrics in different locations. Chipotle was initially using another outdated and inefficient analytics business intelligence platform to collect and track its sales / customer data. Because the data sources were not centralized in a single warehouse, it made it difficult for team members to analyze the information they were collecting. The company upgraded to a newer self-service business analytics platform that centralized all data in one place, creating dashboards for management to access across multiple locations. As a result of improved access to data, stakeholders were able to quickly generate reports and develop insights that contributed to increased profits. It also allowed users to drill down into employee performance to see which team members and business units needed improvement. #### Des Moines Public School Located in Iowa, Des Moines Public School used business analytics to replace tedious manual Excel reporting processes and improve attendance monitoring. The school collected large amounts of information from various data sources , storing it in separate warehouses. As a result of entering data into Excel, there was a decrease in accuracy and efficiency throughout the organization. It is more difficult to combat dropout rates and attendance problems when the administration cannot get a clear view of student data in a centralized location. A business analysis solution used regression models and predictive analysis to predict which students are at risk of dropping out or not meeting attendance requirements. Next, the school used preventive measures to improve its attendance rates and work with at-risk students and their parents. Teachers and other employees had easy access to 5 years of historical data and analysis of current student data, making it easy to intervene before a problem occurred. By employing an intelligence tool to gain a better understanding of the data collected, organizations can optimize workflows, increase efficiency, and improve profit margins. #### Summary HelloFresh implemented a business intelligence tool to improve reporting, allowing you to create more optimized sales and marketing strategies.\ As a result of business analytics, the REI increased retention rates and acquired new members. Coca-Cola used business intelligence software to gain more insight into employee performance and operations data.\ Chipotle implemented a business analysis platform to quickly generate new reports, increase profits and improve employee productivity.\ The Des Moines Public School employed a business analytics system to improve dropout rates and improve preventative measures.
### Related Stories - [[6 reasons to use business analytics](https://medium.com/@kylejones_47003/6-reasons-to-use-business-analytics-b4b1b1d29a23)] - [[How

data is changing business, forever](https://medium.com/@kylejones_47003/how-data-is-changing-business-forever-8ef42523de80)] - [[Understanding the 3 levels of business analytics](https://medium.com/@kylejones_47003/understanding-the-3-levels-of-business-analytics-baf9040143f7)]
